Research Proposal
A. Author (Sarah O’Reilly) 
This document has been set up to assist in the preparation of the Research Proposal document for the 5E2 module. It should be used as a template for the document preparation. 
The research proposal is a clear and succinct description of the intended research that will be carried out for the Project. The purpose of the Research Proposal is to show that the student has identified and understood a clear need for the proposed work, the current state-of-the-art, and a viable approach to advance our knowledge in the field. The Research Proposal should be an expansion of the original project description provided by the supervisor, and should be developed in cooperation with the supervisor. Before commencing the writing of this document, the student should be clear about how the proposed work is going to generate data to help answer the research questions posed. The Research Proposal should be between 2 and 4 pages and should present the following:
 
PROJECT TITLE: APPLICATION OF DEEP LEARNING FOR SOCIAL MEDIA SUMMARISATION AND RATING

I.	RESEARCH QUESTION OR HYPOTHESIS:
The purpose of this experiment to investigate deep learning and neural network algorithms, relate to logistic regression and Support Vector Machines. In particular deep learning and network algorithms are being investigated for their ability to classify data. Beginning with the classification of text and moving on to the classification of image and video. The purpose of this investigation is to develop a method of classifying data from social media in order to rate and summarise it. 

II.	AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF PROJECT:
These aims and objectives are subject to changes as more research on the topic is carried out and the scope of the project is better understood. 
Objectives:
•	Understand the classification models from computer science and statistics and how the different models relate to one another.
•	Research the best method of choosing training data for a system, in particular for deep learning. 
•	Implement adaptive system that applies deep learning.
•	Increase experience in evaluating data using statistical measurement and analysis.
•	Apply the model to unseen data and test the outcome of the system.
•	Investigate the nature of feature extraction and how it can be used in order to speed up the process of categorization and deal with data that may fall outside what the system is capable of adapting to.
•	Become familiarised with the use of databases and large amount of data.
•	Gain experience in image processing and the ability to classify data

III.	BACKGROUND/PROJECT STATEMENT: THE BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION FOR CHOOSING THE RESEARCH PROBLEM SHOULD BE SPECIFIED WITH BRIEF MENTION TO RELATED RESEARCH LITERATURE. 
The aim of this project is to implement an adaptive system that can categorize data after it has been turned on a particular data set. Machine learning involves taking a set data known as the training set and using this data to tune a system. Once a system has been tuned it can take unknown data from outside the training set and categorize it correctly, this is known as generalization. As stated by (Bishop, 2006) the aim is to assign each input vector to one of a finite number of discrete categories, are called classification problems. This is the opposite of regression where the output can be a series of continuous variables. For this particular project the amount of data being summarised means that the training data being used to train the system will only make up a very small percentage of the unseen data being characterised. 
Logistic regression and artificial neural networks are methods of classifying data using probability distribution. The aim of this classification is to create a system that maximises the posterior distribution. There are two different approaches to data classification a dichotomous distinction (e.g. support vector machines) and models that also give the probability of each distribution (e.g. artificial neural networks, logistic regression). There are also differences between logistic regression and neural networks. Neural networks are more flexible however over fitting is more likely. Over fitting is when data is classified to the training data set rather than finding the underlying distribution of the data. (Dreiseitl and Ohno-Machado, 2002)

Deep learning is a more advanced technique of classifying data than neural networks. The weights and biases that are used in neural networks are discovered automatically through the process of training the system. Because of this, it is more difficult to determine how the neural network works. Another way to classify data is to create the network step by step choosing weights and biases rather than allowing it to be generated as it is for artificial neural networks. In order to solve a complex problem, it is broken down into many layers where a portion of the problem can be solved. The combination of all these layers results in a network that can solve intricate problems by breaking them down into several smaller tasks. Networks with this kind of many-layer structure are called deep neural networks. (Nielsen, 2014) The advantage of this kind of network is that along with the ability to classify data, the system can also be understood. 

Previously in the 1980s and 1990s the development of deep learning was too slow to be realistically viable. The reason for this was that rather than hand design the system, learning algorithms are used so that the network can automatically learn weights and biases. After 2006 the capability has been developed to enable learning through deep neural nets. Neural nets work by using backpropagation. Backpropagation is an algorithm that essentially describes how quickly the cost changes when we change weights and biases. 

When it comes to social media the largest challenge comes from the quantity of data in social media. The range of human expression can also be difficult to identify online emotions such as sarcasm can produced false results, which are more difficult for a classifying technique to pick up on. The reason for choosing this research topic is that as the popularity of social media increases there is an ever increasing demand to harness the data from social media. At the same time the use of deep learning is becoming progressively more widespread as the learning algorithms used for these networks become more feasible with the increasing power of processors. 

IV.	METHODOLOGY: PROPOSE A STUDY DESIGN OUTLINING THE APPROACHES TO BE TAKEN IN THE PROPOSED WORK, DATA COLLECTION METHODS AND INSTRUMENTS AND DATA ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES

Work for this project will begin with research of classification techniques. Classification techniques are based on probability and statistics. For this reason it is important to understand the algorithms that different classification techniques are composed of and how these different classification techniques relate to one another. In particular the development of a network that uses deep learning must be explored. This is particularly important so that the system for deep learning is understood. 

Begin designing the classification system. This process may start with the development of other classification techniques in order to understand how different classification techniques affect the system. In order to being designing a deep learning network the multilayer network that a deep learning network is composed of must first be designed. In order to design the multilayer network the problem must first be divided up into a number of smaller problems. The weights and biases of the system must then be established using learning algorithms and backpropagation. 

Once the deep learning network is established it most then be adapted to classify large quantities of unseen data. Adapting systems for large amounts of data can often involve a large amount of restructuring. Ideally the developed system will also be adapted for image and video processing as well as text. Neither of these adaptions will affect the functionality of the deep learning network they will only affect the handling of the data that is put into the system.
V.	EXPECTED RESULTS: INDICATE THE RESULTS THAT ARE ANTICIPATED FROM THE RESEARCH PROJECT.

The expectation from this research project is that a system will be developed that is capable of classifying data from social media. The way that social media will be classified has not yet been defined for this research project. There are several options for the way in which the data will be analysed. One of these options may be to classify the data based on emotion. The deep learning network will be able to classify posts from social media (twitter, facebook, etc.) as being either for example happy or sad. This data from the deep learning network can then be used to predict the mood of the users of social media and possibly predict trends of moods based on previous data. Depending on the way the data is classified in the deep learning network, the network can be used to summarise for a variety of different uses.

As well as developing a system for classifying data, another part of this project is understanding the way that data is classified. One of the advantages of deep learning over neural networks is the ability to understand the method deep learning networks uses to classify data. Because the classification of neural networks is automatically generated, it is difficult to determine how the classification system actually works. By using deep learning networks the possibility to analyse the classification system is available and investigating this system or classification is an important part of this research project. 
VI.	REFERENCES: PLEASE PROVIDE THE LIST OF REFERENCES THAT HAVE BEEN REFERRED TO ANYWHERE IN THE DOCUMENT 

BISHOP, C. M. 2006. Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning 
DREISEITL, S. & OHNO-MACHADO, L. 2002. Logistic regression and artificial neural network classification models: a methodology review. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 35, 352-359.
NIELSEN, M. 2014. Neural Networks and Deep Learning 

